{3}  -*-  mode: text; fill-column: 50;  -*-
[0:

Sun Feb  5 09:32:33 2023 So our second attempt to
"build more ballroom floor after the dancing has
already started" -- for Lotus 4 -- failed, I
believe at least in part, due to an arguable
design flaw in the "mfzid" concept used to
identify physics between tiles.

That was a bummer because it was quite exciting to
get through the Lotus 4 hardware build-out and its
first power up all successfully, and were working
our way through the big update.

The problem specifically, I believe, was this:

The new Ancestor physics mfz, and the physics
config mfz, fully reached some of the lotus 4
tiles long before the latest MFM mfz
completed. And according to the associated slot
config rules, MFM restarted using the new
physics. And it actually came up, which is kind of
amazing considering the multiyear age gap between
that MFM build and the libcue.so in the latest
physics.

But that in itself isn't the main problem. The
main problem is that that MFM successfully got to
ITC open with Lotus 3 tiles, which were running
the latest MFM (with the same libcue.so).

And I'm weasel wording all this because I'm not
completely sure what's going on, but a crash storm
eventually wiped out all the existing dancers.
And although the first steps of the crash storm -
as captured by gridcam timelapse - appear to start
deep in Lotus 3, the crashing quickly spreads to
the suspect 'frontier' tile in Lotus 4.

So I think the bogus open-ITC between vastly
different MFMs caused or contributed to that crash
storm, and we should change MFM so that different
versions of the MFM mfz will never reach ITC open
with each other.
[1:

Sun Feb  5 09:50:27 2023 I think the 'obvious fix'
would be in ~/T2-12/mfm/mfm.pl (rather than in the
MFM tree, despite the location of these notes.)

I think in sub oneTry we should look up the MFM
cdm install tag, and include that somehow in the
-z argument to mfmt2. So getting to ITC open will
need the MFM install tags to match as well as the
physics slot and stamp.
[2:

Sun Feb  5 11:20:03 2023 Well, hacked on
T2-12/mfm/mfm.pl and things seems plausible
enough. Now includes the MFM slot (03) and its tag
in the mfmt2 -z argument.

Released and tested between the keymaster
and the (new) transfer tile.

Committing.

:2]
:1]
:0]
